# Optimized PGGAN-Based Approach for Data Augmentation in Medical Images (Thesis)
This repository contains files related to my Master Thesis.  This thesis further optimizes the PGGAN model for generating chest X-ray radiography
 images. The proposed optimizations include progressively reducing the number of filters
 from 512 at lower resolutions to 32 at higher resolutions, integrating attention mechanisms
 such as spatial and channel attention into the convolutional blocks, adding noise injection
 for regularization, employing Group Normalization to improve stability in small batches,
 and implementing dropout to reduce overfitting. All these targeted modifications signifi
cantly improved the training performance of the PGGAN model, consequently generating anatomically accurate and high-fidelity chest X-ray images.
 The optimized PGGAN architecture, consisting of approximately 19.14 million parame
ters, demonstrated superior stability and realism in the generated images compared to
 the baseline model. Performance evaluation using Fréchet Inception Distance (FID) in
dicated lower scores for the improved model compared to the initial baseline, stressing
 the efficacy of the changes . Consequently, this optimized PGGAN architecture presents
 a valuable tool for augmenting chest radiography datasets, especially beneficial for clas
sification tasks involving Normal and Pneumonia categories, ultimately contributing to
 more robust and accurate clinical diagnostic systems.
 The Greedy-K selection strategy resulted in a reduction in the FID score of the pneumonia
 images from 146.1 (baseline) to 137.2 (optimized). On the other hand, the target sample
 produced virtually flawless results (51.7 for normal images and 129.4 for pneumonia),
 surpassing the baseline FID by about 9 points and approaching the highest normal image
 score ever recorded (51.1). These advances have raised the quality for synthetic medical
 images generated by PGGAN, reducing the distance compared to real images through
 FID by more than 20%.
